A lot of people are talking about
how to use RxJS with XSTATE.
And the answer is that RxJS and
XSTATE work really great together,
because they work in both ways.
If you go to the, not the tutorials, but
the Recipes, and you see usage with RxJS.
The interpreted machine,
which again is called the service,
the service itself is observable.
Which means,
it has the subscribe method, and
it implements the observable interface,
which means you could use this
as something that you subscribe to,
or you can subscribe to it directly.
And each subscription, you're going to
get the latest dates of the service.
And so whenever a new state comes in,
each one of the observers is going to
be notified of when that state changes.
And also whenever you stop the service,
it's going to clean up those
subscriptions themselves.
Also, you can invoke observables
which is very useful as well.
And, there's a great example of
how to do so in the tutorials or,
sorry, in invoking services and
invoking observables.
So in this case, we have an interval
machine where our source instead
of being a promise, it's an interval,
and this is taken directly from RxJS.
This interval pipes out events,
objects, which are of type Count, and
have a value RxJS by default
increments this value.
So this is going to be counts 1,
counts 2, counts 3, etc.
And that most it's going
to just emit five of these,
because of this operator over here.
And observables have this
notion of being completed.
So that's also going to call this
undone transition and go to finished.
So you could see how observables and
state machines can interoperate
between each other pretty seamlessly.
So, someone is asking,
why angular is missing on the list.
And that's simply because I haven't
had the time to make a recipe for
Angular yet, but
I welcome any contributions.
In fact, I think it should be
pretty simple since XSTATE services
are subscribable.
They're observable, so
you could use them as if you would use
any observable thing in Angular JS.